---
layout: post
title:  "Intro to Programming in Go Book"
categories: golang
tags: golang
author: Kamil Babayev
mathjax: true
---

* content
{:toc}

Golang intro book notes




{% raw %}
#### An Introduction to Programming in Go Book

### **How to read .go program.**

```
package main
```
This is known as package declaration. Every go program must have package declaration. Packages are go's way of organizing and reusing code. There are two types of go programs: executables(we run directly) and libraries(package together to use in other programs, like include or python imports.)

Blank lines are ignored by go.

import "fmt"   - this is the way we import code from other packages to use inside our program.

The line starts with // is known as comment. Go also supports /**/ type comments. Everythin between ** is considered comment. This is used mostly for multiline comments.

This part is function declaration.
```
func main() {
    fmt.Println("Hello World")
}
```

All functions start with keywork func followed by name of function(main in this case), a list of zero or more "parameters" surrounded by parentheses, an optional return type and body which is surrounded by curly braces.
 The main function is special because that gets called when we run program.

```
fmt.Println("Hello World")
```
If we get details of this line.  fmt is package name, Println is function inside fmt, 'Hellow World' is a argument which we pass to Println function.

We can also get more details about Println function by
```
do doc fmt                  # shows all functions inside fmt package
go doc fmt Println          # shows info about Println func
```


### **Types**

Data types categorize a set of related values, describe the operations that can be done on them and define the way they are stored. Go is a *statically* typed language, variables always have specific types and types can not be change. Go has several built in data types.

#### **Numbers**
We split numbers in two different kinds: integers and float-point numbers.

#### **Interegs** are numbers without a decimal component.
GO's integer types are: `uint8, uint16, uint32, uint64, int8, int16, int32, int64`.  8,16,32,64 - tells us how many bits each of this types use.
uint - unsigned integer, unsigned integers only contain positive numbers(or zero)
int  - signed integer 

In addition there are two alias types: `byte` - which is same as `uint8` and `rune` which is same as `int32` (1 byte = 8 bits)

There are also three machine dependent integer types: `uint, int and uintptr`
They are machine dependent because their size depends on the type of architecture you are using.

Generally if you are working with integers you should just use the `int` type.


#### **Float Point Numbers**
Float point numbers are are numbers that contain a decimal component(real numbers). (1.223, 3.44, 0.00033)

- Floating point numbers are inexact. For example computing 1.01 - 0.99 results in 0.020000000000000018 – A number extremely close to what we would expect, but not exactly the same.
- Like integers floating point numbers have a certain size (32 bit or 64 bit).
- In addition to numbers there are several other values which can be represented: “not a number” (NaN, for things like 0/0) and positive and negative infinity. (+∞ and −∞)

Go has two foating point types: `float32` and `float64`, as well as two additional types for representing complex numbers `complex64` and `complex128`.
Generally we should stick with `float64` when working floating point numbers.ex:
```
package main

import "fmt"

func main() {
    fmt.Println("1 + 1 = ", 1 + 1)
    fmt.Println("1 + 1 = ", 1.0 + 1.0)
}
```

> go run main.go

#### **Strings**
string is a sequence of characters with a definite length used to represent text. Go strings are made up of individual bytes, usually one for each character. (Characters from other languages like Chinese are represented by more than one byte) String literals can be created using double quotes "Hello World" or back ticks `Hello World`. The difference between these is that double quoted strings cannot contain newlines and they allow special escape sequences. For example `\n` gets replaced with a newline and `\t` gets replaced with a tab character. Several common operations on strings include finding the length of a string: `len("Hello World")`, accessing an individual character in the string: `"Hello World"[1]`, and concatenating two strings together: `"Hello " + "World"`.

```
package main

import "fmt"

func main() {
	fmt.Println(len("Hello World"))
    //displays 101 instead of e because character is reprst. by a byte
	fmt.Println("Hello World"[1])
	fmt.Println("Hello " + "World")
}
```

#### **Booleans**
A boolean value is a special 1 bit integer type used to represent true and false(or on and off). Three logical operators are used with boolean values:

|  && | and |
| --  | --- |
| \|\|| or  |
|  !  | not |

```
package main

import "fmt"

func main() {
	fmt.Println(true && true)
	fmt.Println(true && false)
	fmt.Println(true || true)
	fmt.Println(true || false)
	fmt.Println(!true)
}
```

#### **Variables**
Variable is a storage location with a specific type and an associated name.
Variables in Go are created by first using the `var` keyword, then specifying the `variable name` (x), the `type` (string) and finally `assigning` a `value` to the variable (Hello World)
> var name string = "Kamil"

The last part(value) is optional so an alternative way of writing is:
```
var name string
name = "Kamil"
var x string = "demo"
x = "newdemo"
var a int = 3
a = a + 5
a += 10     # this is short version of above example
```

`==` this is equal sign in Go.
```
var n1 int = 22
var n2 int = 33
fmt.Println(n1 == n2)   // wil return false.
```

Go also supports a `shorter statement` to create variables:
```
name := "Kamil"    //go detects type based on passed value
var name = "Kamil"
x := 1
```

`Note:` Naming a variable properly is an important part of software development. Names `must start with a letter` and `may contain letters`, `numbers` or the _`(underscore)` symbol

`Scope:` In above examples we defined ariables inside main function. but we can define them outside of it also. in that case variables will be available for other functions.
```
// if we dont define this var, demo function will throw out error
// .\variables.go:17:14: undefined: name
var name string = "Yunis" 

func main() {
	var name string = "Kamil"
	var sname string = "Babayev"
	demo()
	fmt.Println(name, sname)
}

func demo() {
	fmt.Println(name)
}
```
{% endraw %}
