---
layout: post
title:  "Journal Jan 2021"
categories: journal
tags: monthly-journal mini-me
author: Aastha Mehta
mathjax: false
---

* content
{:toc}

All of Jan 2021's Journal entries




{% raw %}
## 1 Jan 2021
I couldn't really cry out my heart more or feel such thrills, hair raising experience- The Imitation Game.. 
1st Jan:  Things I connected to: <br>

‌- Living the abnormally pure way
‌- No one ever being part of great things does it for recognition. You may be performing strenous God like work in the background without anyone ever getting the hint of it, you do it for inner zeal, understanding ur greater purpose. 
‌- you end up saying bad, regretful things to one who u really care about, bcoz its your way of pushing them away from u for their own good. 
- ‌your normals, ur thinking can be different & someone there exists who still understands u, being classic breaking norm example of society rules. 

### Few Heart Touching Dialogues: 
‌- Alan Turing: Sometimes it is the people no one imagines anything of who do the things that no one can imagine.
‌society punishes one for the incontrollables just bcoz they don't fit their definition of right
The genius ahead of time, inspirational but he doesn't know it himself, how the world he lives in would never have been as it was w/o him. 
- Joan Clarke: I know it's not ordinary. But who ever loved ordinary?
- Alan Turing: Do you know why people like violence? It is because it feels good. Humans find violence deeply satisfying. but remove the satisfaction, and the act becomes... hollow.
- Joan Clarke: Do you know, this morning I was on a train that went through a city that wouldn't exist if it wasn't for you. I bought a ticket from a man who would likely be dead if it wasn't for you. I read up, on my work, a whole field of scientific inquiry that only exists because of you. Now, if you wish you could have been normal... I can promise you I do not. The world is an infinitely better place precisely because you weren't.
‌- Alan Turing: When people talk to each other, they never say what they mean. [pause] They say something else and you're expected to just know what they mean

## 2 
‌2nd Jan' leetcode, mern exercise tracker & mentor session- learning give urself & pc rest in a while. At least half an hr before it. <br>
‌Dont waste more time bcoz u already wasted some. <br>
‌went for dinner: a day w/o much phone felt so real. Making me realize importance of being independent, knowing how to drive.. <br>
‌chalk & duster movie : juhi chawla, teachers are forgotten heroes. <br>
‌the courage & passion to pursue your life's masterpiece work could sprout from a small habit u enjoy doing like Alan Turing's crossword solving led to breaking of enigma, his love for cryptography & changed the face of world by intelligence deciphered by his machine Christopher under the Ultra - mission coded. <br>
‌
‌
## 3

## 4 

## 5 

## 6 
‌6th jan: watched Golkeri with Family.. Malhar's & Mansi's epic dialogue, monologues are deepsome! Such powerful delivery making tears drop at rate faster than acceleration of gravity.. <br>
‌malhar's dialogue of fear of failure & giving up without trying, its become so relatable. Even I feel like I haven't given enough chance to myself to fail fast & enjoy present & build the future a happy way... <br>
I'm livin life procrastinating it to tomorrow even worse than death, I'm not valuing the time given to me ro great things  or even to enjoy my own presence or existence. & when u don't celebrate ur existence, u actually r living a zombie life... **Courage is the key.** <br>
- ‌Tell lies with details for them to believe: Young Sheldon. 

## 7 

## 8 

## 9 

## 10 

## 11 

## 12 

## 13 

## 14 

## 15 

## 16 

## 17 

## 18 

## 19 

## 20 

## 21 

## 22 

## 23 

## 24 

## 25 

## 26 

## 27 

## 28 

## 29 

## 30 

## 31 



Meet u again!


<!--
Commit Message
Update Daily Journal
-->
{% endraw %}