---
layout: post
title:  "Kubernetes Network Policies"
categories: kubernetes
tags: kubernetes
author: Kamil Babayev
mathjax: true
---

* content
{:toc}

Somethings I believe to be true & take inspiration from which I learned by various experiences


If you want to control traffic flow at the IP address or port level (OSI layer 3 or 4), then you might consider using Kubernetes NetworkPolicies for particular applications in your cluster. NetworkPolicies are an application-centric construct which allow you to specify how a pod is allowed to communicate with various network "entities" (we use the word "entity" here to avoid overloading the more common terms such as "endpoints" and "services", which have specific Kubernetes connotations) over the network.



{% raw %}
## Thought Outlets
- My ‌everyday power booster: The Indian land & its enormous energy , pure, spiritual, giving life a meaning
- ‌an enemy made is like a million rupees lost! 
- ‌i just realised what I fear the most? To be within my mind always. To not let anyone know my real thoughts 
- A master is one who keeps practicing. Levels of intelligence overturn with constant efforts.
- turn all ur embarrassing experiences into worth to remember ones by embracing them

If you want to control traffic flow at the IP address or port level (OSI layer 3 or 4), then you might consider using Kubernetes NetworkPolicies for particular applications in your cluster. NetworkPolicies are an application-centric construct which allow you to specify how a pod is allowed to communicate with various network "entities" (we use the word "entity" here to avoid overloading the more common terms such as "endpoints" and "services", which have specific Kubernetes connotations) over the network.

```
kubectl get pods
kubectl get networkpolicies
```

## Other 



## Sayonara

Meet u again!

{% endraw %}
